# Configuring access to an application deployed on Red Hat OpenShift through CIS

Hosting web applications is a common deployment pattern for public cloud. You can use Cloud Internet Services to provide secure access over the internet to your application deployed in a Red Hat OpenShift cluster.


## Before you begin

- You need a Red Hat OpenShift cluster on IBM Cloud with an app deployed in the cluster. For more information, see [Deploying apps in Red Hat OpenShift clusters](https://cloud.ibm.com/docs/openshift?topic=openshift-deploy_app&interface=ui).
- You also need an instance of Cloud Internet Services with an active domain name. You can use this [CIS module](https://github.com/terraform-ibm-modules/terraform-ibm-cis) to create and configure the instance.
- Make sure that you have the [OpenShift CLI installed](https://cloud.ibm.com/docs/openshift?topic=openshift-cli-install).
- Make sure that you have the [IBM Cloud CLI installed](https://cloud.ibm.com/docs/cli?topic=cli-getting-started).

## Add a DNS entry

1. Log in to [IBM Cloud](https://cloud.ibm.com) and click your CIS instance under "Resources List". Navigate to the DNS tab under Reliability.
1. Go to `DNS records` and add a record:

   ```text
   Type: CNAME
   Name: <any name>
   TTL: Automatic
   Alias domain name: <openshift_route>  ## example: router-default.xxx-3b5bf5f75xxxx21c8c35ad277-0000.us-south.containers.appdomain.cloud
   ```

   Make a note of the CIS domain and DNS record name. You need it later to access the application from CIS.

   For example, the CIS domain is `example.com`, the DNS record name is `test`, and the application endpoint is `/healthz`. The URL to access will be `https://test.example.com/healthz`.  If you try to connect to your URL, you get an SSL handshake error because the SSL certificates are not yet set up.

## Configuring your SSL certificate

To establish a secure connection between the client and server, you need to an SSL certificate. You can generate the certificate can be generated by using IBM Cloud [Secrets Manager](https://cloud.ibm.com/catalog/services/secrets-manager).

1. Order a certificate in Secrets Manager:

    1. Open the Secrets Manager service and select `Secrets` on the left.
    1. Click **Add**.
    1. If you are using a new Secrets Manager instance, you need to configure it before you order your certificate. Follow the steps that are outlined under [Preparing to order public certificates](https://cloud.ibm.com/docs/secrets-manager?topic=secrets-manager-prepare-order-certificates&interface=ui).
    1. Click **Public certificate**, and then click **Next**.
    1. Complete the form. Add a name and description.
    1. Click **Next**.
    1. Select your configured Let's Encrypt certificate authority engine.
    1. Select the key algorithm to use to generate the key for your certificate.
    1. Enable advanced options for the certificate.
        - Make sure that the bundle is toggled off.
        - Make sure that the automatic certificate rotation is toggled off.
    1. Select your configured DNS provider instance.
    1. Add the domains to include in your request. Check the subdomain, and then click **Done**.
    1. Click **Next**.
    1. Review your selections and click **Add**.
1. Download the certificates in Secrets Manager. It has `<cert_name>.key` and `<cert_name>.pem` file.
1. Run the following commands on the command line to create secrets in your cluster that use the downloaded certificates.

   ```sh
   ibmcloud login --apikey <apikey>
   ibmcloud oc cluster config -c <your_openshift_cluster_id> --admin
   oc project openshift-ingress  #switch to the project where your application is deployed
   oc create secret tls <secret_name> --cert=<path_of_pem_file> --key=<path_of_key_file>
   ```

## Create an ingress

An ingress defines rules to allow external access to services in a cluster. You create an ingress for your URL.

You create an ingress for the endpoint that uses the CIS CNAME as the host and the TLS secret that you generated in the previous step.

1. Update the following configuration to match your domain, secret, path, service, and port.
   Save the file with the name `ingress.yaml`.

   ```yaml
   apiVersion: networking.k8s.io/v1
   kind: Ingress
   metadata:
     name: myingressresource
   spec:
    tls:
    - hosts:
      - test.example.com
     secretName: <secret_name>
   rules:
   - host: test.example.com
     http:
      paths:
      - path: /healthz
        pathType: ImplementationSpecific
        backend:
            service:
                name: router-internal-default
                port:
                    number: 1936
   ```
1. Apply the configuration by running the following OpenShift CLI command:

   ```sh
   oc apply -f ingress.yaml
   ```

   The command creates the route for the endpoint.

   You can validate the route by running the following command:

       ```sh
       oc get routes
       ```
1. Verify that you can access your application at the endpoint that you created in [Add a DNS entry](#add-a-dns-entry). For example,

    ```sh
    curl https://test.example.com/healthz
    ok
    ```

   If you have issues connecting to the endpoint, see [Troubleshooting your CIS network connection](https://cloud.ibm.com/docs/cis?topic=cis-troubleshoot-your-cis-network-connection) for possible solutions.


You created a secure connection to your application endpoint through CIS.
